[Music.]
Flight, the magic power that lifts man above the ground into a third dimension
of reality. A man's reach should exceed his grasp, said Robert Browning, or
what's a heaven for? Always man looked at the heavens and reached for flight.
Icarus, the legendary man who first dared to fly, was doomed, but the dream
persisted. To almost everything man made, he gave imaginary wings to ships,
chairs, horseless carriages, as if he asked that they would somehow fly. But the
forces of gravity were stubborn.
[Music.]
An early success was reported by Alexander Graham Bell in 1896. I witnessed, he
said, a remarkable experiment with Professor Langley's aerodrome on the Potomac
River. It resembled an enormous bird soaring in the air. When the steam gave
out, the propellers, which had moved it, stopped, and the hole instead of
tumbling down, settled as slowly and as gracefully as it is possible for any
bird Then two brothers, Orville Wright and Wilbur Wright of Dayton, Ohio,
presented to the Commissioner of Patents a petition praying for the grant of
letters of patent for an alleged new and useful improvement in flying machines.
in December 1903 they telegraphed home to report success four flights Thursday
morning all against 21 mile wind started from level with engine power alone
average speed through air 31 miles informed press, home for Christmas nothing
wrote John Dos Passos can blur the memory of the chilly December day two
shivering bicycle mechanics from Dayton, Ohio, first felt their homemade
contraption whittled out of hickory sticks, gummed together with Einstein's
bicycle cement, stretched with muslin they'd sewn on their sister's sewing
machine, soar into the air above the dunes and the wide beach at Kitty Hawk.
Twenty years before that flight at Kitty Hawk, a Frenchman, Louis Mouillard,
predicted when the first fear has been conquered, when the horror of empty space
has been mastered through familiarity with it, intelligent man, after having
reproduced all the gates of the bird, will want to improve upon them. And he
did. And a vast love affair developed between man and his flying machine.
It was an age of heroes and heroic flights. Records were set only to fall and be
replaced. Records for speed, altitude, distance. Greatest of all, the record
flight made by a young American in 1927. Paris, May 26, 10 o'clock struck. A
sort of shiver went through the crowd. All of a sudden the thousands were
electrified by the sound of a motor. and turning we saw just as if thrown on a
silver screen a white-grey monoplane 20 feet from the ground and softly settling
a new age was born. A bird, Leonardo da Vinci observed is an instrument working
according to mathematical law which instrument it is within the capacity of man
to reproduce with all its movements.
according to mathematical law. Today the art of flying has become the science of
aeronautics as man studies the phenomena and the laws of flight step by
experimental step.
To the first successful planes, only the barest theory gave birth.
in just a few years aeronautics moved to flight at supersonic speeds as research
planes touch the dark edge of space test and progress a flashing red warning
light a massive wind generator begins To turn, through
a labyrinth of pipes and tubes a surge of air accelerates, In the test This
section, several times the speed of sound. Instruments sense the reactions,
forces, pressures, dynamics, temperatures. Torrents of data. Computers store
airplane designs as mathematical models, displayed on demand in various
attitudes.
Tiny currents race through a maze of circuitry. research data stored, searched,
and analyzed in milliseconds. The designer's imagination interacting with the electronic brain.
[Music.]
In the creative dialogue between man and machine, successive steps are recorded
by computer-directed plotting machines.
[Music.]
Mathematical models, translated into wind tunnel models of titanium and steel.
The loop closes.
[Music.]
As a concept matures, research aircraft add flight experience and verify the
design, the interaction of parts during all phases of flight, the optimum
compromise is the mature design.
As aviation more and more becomes an inescapable part of modern life, research
has turned to a broad range of problems. How to reduce jet engine noise. How to
make runways safer. The turbulent wakes left in the sky by large planes. How to
build stronger and safer airplanes. Shockwaves and the sonic boom. Flight
experience remains crucial. In various test programs, airplanes of many kinds
are used to verify and improve design concepts. As our cities grow and expand,
it becomes ever more difficult to get from place to place. In actual flight and
in tests, concepts for short and vertical takeoff and landing are developed.
Such airplanes may link downtown to downtown, city to airport, and town to
country. Continent to continent, research programs investigate flight at ever
greater speeds, ever higher altitudes. New York to Paris in 2 hours. New York to
Tokyo in 6. Quieter, safer and more efficient as time and distance shrink. Only
a few decades since Skiddy Hawk. The aeroplanes of tomorrow fly in wind tunnels
today at 6, 8, 10 times the speed of sound. More and more people fly, more
often, in more planes, to more places. Millions today, tens of millions
tomorrow. The greatest migration in history. The future of aviation. Will it
bring more crowding, pollution, noise, or will it bring us closer together into
the family of man? Computers and wind tunnels, circuits and switches, dials and
gauges, new tools for research, and man the designer looking into the future.
Research today is solving tomorrow's problems, to fulfill the promise of flight,
a new freedom for man. A man's reach should exceed his grasp. The long,
impossible dream to cross the threshold of space has become reality.
[Music.]
As this mission unfolds, it carries with it the dreams of centuries, the science
of 300 years and a decade of experience in spaceflight. Sputnik, the first
satellite. Then man himself, Yuri Gagarin, Alan Shepard, John Glenn, Valentina
Tereshkova, a woman in space. Man walks in space. the intricate ballet of
rendezvous and docking. Space, a new field for science. Sensors pointed at the
Earth, the sun, and the stars. Weather surveillance, communications,
agriculture, Earth resources, and many other fields benefit from satellite
research. Before man went to the moon, unmanned spacecraft made the voyage. Luna
and Lunik. Ranger and surveyor. Camera shutters clicking from lunar orbiters to
map the Moon and select landing sites.
[Music.]
In the long period of research and development that led to the landing on the
Moon each step to be taken on the way and on the Moon itself was carefully
rehearsed.
[Music.]
Here men from the planet Earth first set foot on the moon, July 1969 AD.
It was a small step, a giant leap, they came in peace for all mankind.
The astronauts found, as astronomer Fred Whipple had predicted, a sublime
desolation.
To this strange world, they came as explorers and scientists. There had been
concern about man's ability to work in the weak lunar gravity, but the
astronauts reported there seems to be no difficulty in moving around here, and
we suspect it's even easier than the simulations of 1.6G that we performed in
various simulators on the ground. Man comes to the moon with questions.
Questions he asks of the soil, the rocks, and the terrain. The things he sees
and experiences and records, questions he asks with the instruments he leaves
behind.
Information radioed back to Earth may answer age-old questions. What is the
origin, the evolution, of the moon, the Earth, the solar system? New questions
arise. The moon becomes a laboratory. Scientists of many nations share in its
discoveries. A sublime desolation. A laboratory for science. It is in truth for
all mankind.
[Music.]
As the astronauts return home to the sound of cheers and the music of a band. In
laboratories round the world, the dream of the scientist comes true to hold in
his hands a piece of the moon. Konstantin Tsiolkovsky was a shy deaf school
teacher and one of the pioneers of space science. Earth, he said, is the cradle
of the mind, but one cannot live in the cradle forever. To leave the cradle, New
and more efficient concepts of spaceflight are being developed. A space shuttle
system, spacecraft which will operate in space and in the atmosphere, returned
to Earth to land on runways and be used again. Space stations will be scientific
outposts in Earth orbit, platforms for instruments to survey the Earth and
observe the heavens, and laboratories for the space technology of tomorrow.
Teams of scientists and engineers will live and work here for long periods of
time. Looking at the heavens, man asks the age-old question, is anyone there?
The reason for going to Mars really is to get on the surface of the planet,
right? We're interested in how the planet was formed, where it came from in the
first place, what is the physical environment of the planet. And of course, the
biological sciences. ...and is there life on the planet? Does the planet tell us
anything about where, how, when did life begin? The voices of scientists,
geologists, meteorologists, biologists, mapping the exploration of another
planet with Project Viking. An unmanned space probe landing on Mars. A robot
laboratory to conduct experiments and look for life. When you go... When you
think about how to look for life you do what every human being does who's ever
been alone on a desert. The first thing he does is he opens his eyes and he
looks around and he looks, you know, he looks with the experience that he's had
for the length of his life he tries to see if there's a shrub or a bush or a or
a rat hole or something, something to give him some credibility to it. How about
red grass? But there's red grass on Earth, that's no challenge. The life
detection experiment, It's really for experiments, and because life is such a
complicated process, the more criteria of biological activity we can look for,
the more likely we are to find it. For example, there's the experiment that
deals with photosynthesis, where you actually inject some carbon dioxide and see
whether the carbon dioxide is picked up by the sunlight. But when people are
introduced into an experiment, they're so simple. but think of the difficulty
replacing the human trying to make a robot machine that goes someplace and does
something for us. We're taking what are very simple laboratory routines and we
have to do all of this in a completely automated mode. But the thing that really
turns me on is the idea that there might be a separate and distinct origin of
life on Mars, you know if you really had it happen twice in this tiny little sun
solar system that we have why the universe must be teeming with life and if
that's true who are we to say that we're the smart ones you know we may be
somewhere in the middle one is always in the middle of some curve it's like the
days of the vikings the real vikings it's an exploratory program and new
questions always produce more new questions and and this is how you learn and
beyond this tiny little sun solar system islands floating in the great void is
anyone there nebulae clusters galaxies farther and farther but where man has
never been and may in fact never go his mind has already reached out to ask
questions digital computers spin out data gravitation velocity energy mass the
life cycles of universes compressed into minutes As man looks outward into the
darkness of space And finds the light of new knowledge He sees and begins to
understand himself Archibald McLeish comments To see the earth as it truly is
Small and blue and beautiful In that eternal silence where it floats Is to see
ourselves as riders on the earth together, brothers on that bright loveliness in
the eternal cold, brothers who know now that they are truly brothers.
[Music.]
[Silent.]
Hello, I'm Jim Burnett and I'm your host for the next several weeks. Our series
is The Airplane and NASA. We'll trace how NASA, building on the previous work of
NACA, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, has played an
important role in the field of aeronautics. In this, our first show, a prominent
figure in the world of aviation, Paul Garber, shares some of his experiences
with us. He takes us back to the very first days of powered flight and he gives
valuable insight into the growth of airplane technology. In later programs we
pick up the NASA aeronautical story in the 60s and move chronologically from
then towards the present. Now let's pick up the Garber interview as he talks
about the films he's made on the history of flight. I started off with natural
flight because flight began with nature 250 million years ago where the first
bug that flew the Megalura 250 million years ago and then after natural flight
came imaginative flight that's the next one man's yearning to fly as shown in
his imagination where he couldn't make the thing but he could think about it
It's quite significant that he thought that angels could fly and that the gods
could fly because he thought that the gods could do anything. Take Mercury,
Hermes, the messenger of the gods who had wings. Little things on his feet and
on his helmet. Not much very powerful wing loading, but it was an idea, quite
important. Everything starts with a good idea. So the imaginative flight, that's
with religion, fantasy, fiction, poetry, art, and then the kite, the boomerang,
then Da Vinci.
Then the balloon was the first lift man into the air. That was November 21,
1783. Montgolfier in France, Paris. And then airships, which are powered
balloons. And then the beginnings of heavier than aircraft going back to L
'Annoyne-Bienvenue 1784 was the first thing that ever raised itself by its own
self-contained power. First step beyond the kite!
A kite is far more than a toy. It can be very interesting lesson in basic
aerodynamics. It can show you things about center of thrust, center of gravity,
and center of the pressure. I can tell you things about diehedral for lateral
stability and of keel service for longitudinal stability. It's a very good
teaching device.
I saw it in a newspaper where Otto Wright was flying at Fort Myer. this picture
of the airplane and the statement about the flight and I asked my father if I
could have a car fare to go to Fort Myer the next day. He gave me 50 cents or
whatever it was. The next morning, or next afternoon it was, because it said the
flying was late in the afternoon when the wind had died down. So I went over to
Fort Myer. I remember the trolley line was quite a distance away from the fort
but I ran all the way and as I came to the fort and went through the gate I
could hear this sound and as I passed the first short block and then came out
where the huge field was where they had the artillery and cavalry exercises,
here looking down I saw the sound, the sort of this noise, and it was this
airplane. I'd never before seen an airplane, I'd seen pictures of them, but here
was this enormous thing, this great big kite with two men in it, and the
propellers turning over and The engine was sound and coming toward us and as I
looked at it I leaned back like that and fell down flat but continued to look at
it and then got up and watched as it flew around and around and around the field
going this way, I remember and Then finally came into a landing now That memory
has been enhanced by later knowledge so that I know now that it was on the 27th
of July 1909 because that was a day of the duration flight then the 30th was a
day of the distance flight that was the first round trip flight in America when
whoever Wright flew from Fort Mayer to Alexandria around Sue Tres Hill on back
again 10 miles in all yes that remains to my mind as well I can look right
through a 747 and see the Wright flyer. And then I was further astonished when I
saw the airplane again in the Smithsonian, where it had been placed in 1911. So
many times I would go there just to see that airplane once more. One day when I
was again visiting the Smithsonian, I saw up on top of a case, this rather large
scale model of a Chanute glider. I learned later that Octave Chanute himself had
given it to the Smithsonian, following its use in a display in 1906. That was
the first air show in America. So there it was. And I got permission to go up on
a ladder where a man was cleaning the case and look at it more closely and see
how it was made and get an idea about its dimensions. I went on home and made a
copy of it. It's about yea span and about yea cord and had a extended boom
arrangement with a quadrifoiled tail on it. I made a copy of it. My mother
helped me to tack the cloth on. She had what was called chintz in those days.
Today they call it polished cotton. She had a whole bolt of red chintz. And we
covered it with that. And then I went out in the backyard and assembled it. And
then my model airplane club friends got together. We just went over the fence,
on up the hill, to a place called the red lot. It was just red gravel, a lot of
this red clay. and three big trees at the back end of it. We chose a windy day,
and I got in this glider, or on it, or under it, had my arms over the longurons
and my hands grasping the two struts here. And we had two lines going out from
it with my friends on each line and a good wind. And then I hollered to them to
pull, and I began running with this thing. And sure enough, I began to rise. and
they were so surprised to see me rise they stopped running to look and of course
we stood back on the glider's tail and my tail and took a couple of weeks for
repairs to both of us but then we went again to the same location and they kept
running that time. They ran to the end of the field then down this rather steep
at the far end of it and then I glided above them and then over this lower
section and across the trees and land it in the field on the far side and today
when i'm in that area i tell my friends i flew over those trees the trees are
way up there now, those days are down here, but i made about a dozen glides in
this thing and then one of the other fellows wanted to try it he cracked it up
but that's the first time I was airborne, 1915.
Air mail had begun at the portal grounds in Washington on May 15, 1918. That is
as a continuously scheduled public service between fixed stations. There'd been
airmail before that, with the carrier pigeons and balloons and the pioneers of
flight, but the first time that it became a public service, starting what we now
have today, was this route between Washington and New York. And the Army began
it on May 15th, then turned it over to the post office on August 12th, and I
signed up when I got my discharge on December 14th, honorable discharge, that
is, and then it was signed in on the 17th which just happened to be the 15th
anniversary of the Wright brothers first flight and i was at College Park at
this big field there and i was by no means a rude pilot i have such admiration
with those who were i wouldn't dilute them by myself but i learned to fly at
that time because many of those pilots had been instructors and they gave me
some stick time once in a while and i soldered on the fourth of July, a holiday
of 1919. Soldered in a Courtes-Jenny. And I helped with the mail. I was very
proud that to do my part. I'd do anything. They called me Chief Slave. And I'd
do anything. I'd gas up the ships or check the tool bag, and taxi out the
airplane, that is run alongside of it, or grab it as it came in, I'd have to
hold a wing. And the mechanics' work, work on the engines and the airframes. I
was handy. You know Paul, you've been at the Smithsonian Institution since 1920.
When you first joined the Smithsonian, what were some of your first duties? I
was called preparator. That means one who prepares things for display. And my
job was to repair things that had broken. And there were many things. In fact
that's how I got the idea that I might work there. I've been in the air mail
service prior to that, but then looking for another position after I left the
air mail reluctantly because they were moving to Chicago and I was to be based
in Washington. My father was not well. He asked me to stay in this area. But at
Smithsonian, many things were broken. So wanting another job, and loving that
institution as I always have, I asked if a job might be available.
And I met Luther Reed, who had been Langley's chief mechanic, on his large A
-airdrome, and on the small airrooms also. You see, Langley was the secretary of
the Smithsonian. That means the head. And the Langley Airdrome, unmanned, of
1896, was the world's first ever, heavier than aircraft, to be mechanically
powered and to fly. Unmanned. Later on, the manned aircraft did not fly, but the
unmanned one did. So Luther Reed was Lankens' chief mechanic. And he was still
living when I used to go there just to see the museum. I came to meet him. He
loved clocks also. I tried to get there around 12 o'clock when all the clocks
were striking. And I'd take him some ice cream. So he died in March. I got his
job in June. June 1, 1920. And my duties were to repair things, a preparator,
I'd repair anything. But then my interest was in aeronautics. And whenever I
could finish one job and had nothing assigned to me, I'd work on something
aeronautical. So this was a three-month appointment and it began to run out. And
the boss was away on vacation. So finishing everything that I've been told to
do, Up to the time when I my last day aboard had arrived I then continued to
work there but making this model of Leonardo da Vinci's manual ornithopter.
That's a wing flapper
Ornithopter Ornithopter from bird and thopter from wing Birdules. And Leonardo
da Vinci was my hero. I'd always admired the man had the greatest mind I think
of ever existed And he was interested in flight Well, da Vinci marks the
separation between the crazy ideas, like dew bottles that were, they thought
there was a magic to rise, and harnessing birds, when human power was applied in
a sensible manner to operating an aircraft. And I learned more about this from
the librarian at the Smithsonian and then made this model just on my own,
because I wanted to have something there of my own that I had made just to show
my grandchildren when I came there in later years years. But the secretary, who
was then Dr. Walkett, in fact, Walkett was really the founder of what you are
here. He was the founder of NASA, which is now NASA. Dr. Walkett saw this model,
admired it, and gave me an extension, which has lasted for sixty-one-some years.
And so I was a model maker, I was a model repairer. I'd do anything that had to
be done to maintain the collection. But then, when I helped to get the spirit of
St. Louis, that brought so much attention to the aeronautical collections of the
museum that it was decided to have a section of aeronautics and I was put in
charge of it.
so over your 61 years paul no doubt you've met and talked with many famous
aviators i'm going to mention a few names and maybe if you could just kind of
highlight what you remember about each one charles lindbergh i'd known of him as
an airmail pilot because i'd been in the airmail myself and I had known of him
with his service on the Chicago St. Louis route because he was a very fine
pilot. I knew of him through mutual friends. And then I came to know him after
he had agreed to give the airplane to us. I met him in Memphis when he was on
his circuit tour of the United States. I met him when he came to the museum to
discuss it of course I met when he brought it to us on April 30 1928, I met him
when he visited at the museum many times. Yes, I knew him quite well. He always
called me by my first name. Once in a while I forget and call him Slim. What
about Orville Wright? He came to the museum in 1923, he wanted to see the
Langley Aerodrome and consider it aerodynamically and also to see whether it had
been repaired as in its original condition. Of course the Langley Air Drone, the
large one, was tested twice, October 7 and December 8, 1903. Neither time did it
fly. The first time the front Kingpost caught on the launching gear and pulled
the wing down this way, with the negative angle of incidence, went into the
water. The second time the rear guy broke to the stabilizer. The aircraft went
up like this on its back and again in the water. We don't know about the third
time. It was never tested again. until it was tested after it had been repaired
and modified by Glenn Curtiss. And Orville Wright objected to the belief that the
flight in 1914 proved that it might have flown in 1903. And he wanted to see the
airplane again to remind himself about its details. I met him then. And I showed
him a display I'd made, because the 20th anniversary of the Kitty Hawk Flight of
1903 was coming up again. I made this display, I made a scale model about Yay
Big of the Kitty Hawk Flyer. I had photographs of himself and his brother. I had
an example of the Langley Medal given to him and his brother in 1908. Early
recognition of them, they'd been the first in America. and then I had some other
photographs of their gliders and wind tunnel. So I showed that to Orbital
Wright, and he was rather pleased to see it. And then he made a few comments of
additional items that I needed. I asked him for things that I knew I wanted. He
was very gracious and gave me a number of photographs for it, made some
suggestions about the model, and that started a pleasant relationship. What
about Glen Curtiss? Well, of course, I knew of him from the very early days. But
in 1925, I was at the air races in New York City on Long Island. And he was
there with the Curtiss Racers, which were beautiful aircraft. and the Curtiss R3C2
was being flown by Cy Bettis and with Jimmy Doolittle as alternate pilot, I
remember, and then Al Williams was flying a similar airplane. Cy Bettis won that
year, but as a contrast between the then-current Curtiss Racers and the Curtiss
aircraft of the early days there was a Curtiss Pusher which was flown by Verda
Costa and then as it came back and was put up here on the line Glen Curtiss sat
in it and after his photograph was taken, I walked up introduced myself, said I
was from the museum, I said would you consider giving this airplane to the
Smithsonian, well I said I hadn't thought of that, well I said you're going to
do with it. And if you keep flying it, you bust it up. How about giving it to
us? He called a Frank Russell who was standing by. He says Frank, Paul Garber
wants this airplane for his museum in Washington? And Frank Russell says that's
a good idea. What about Wiley Post? Yes, of course everybody knew him, the
wonderful flyer that he is, with only one eye. And a magnificent example of 42
determination in spite of the handicap. Wonderful example. I go sometimes to see
my dear daughter who's become an invalid, and as I see these persons there in
this hospital, I wish for something that would cause them to somehow try to
overcome their handicap. But Wally Post is a magnificent example of one who is
handicapped by the loss of an eye, but he overcame that. One can, as I found out
one time when I had an eye injury, one can regain somewhat perspective. That's
what your two eyes give you of course. To some extent you get back a
relationship of how far things are, but he was able to fly an airplane and to
land it and fly it under the most difficult conditions. Yes, I knew him, but I
knew him because of who he was and I asked him for the Winnie Mae one time over
to Hoover field. Well he says I'm still using it. I said there'll come a time
when you'll be turning it in on something else and like to have it for the
museum. Meanwhile I was offered other Lockheed Vegas like Wilkins or the one who
is being thrown by Stan Avaloe. But I kept on after the Winnie Mae of Wiley
Post. We finally got it and I would never have wished to have it the way we did
that was after his death and then mrs. Post was gracious to give it to us with a
special arrangement by Josh Lee of oklahoma then in Congress
another character how the past is Roscoe Turner with his lion Gilmour I
think
I I met him first when I was anxious to illustrate the beginnings of commercial
aviation in the world. Aviation. That is of course, Air Astachian was the first
commercial. That's lighter than Air. But aviation commercially began in Florida
in January 1, 1914 with a Benoist flying boat flown by my good friend Tony Janus
who graduated from Tech High School as I did, not when I did, I was some years
after him. But he learned to fly at College Park, where I did, and then went
with Benoist, that's B-E-N-O-I-S-T. Tom Benoist used to call his factory the
Benoysterie, because persons call him Benoyst. But it was a Benoist flying boat
from Batoni Janus that was the world's first ever commercial. That was up for
about three months between St. Petersburg and Tampa, which was across the route
where there's now a bridge. In those days, those eight miles were spanned by
air.
and I wanted to represent it in the museum, I helped to make a scale model of
that flying boat and then when I was given the model by the one who sponsored
it, then Roscoe Turner was in the group. What about Amelia Earhart? I saw her
twice, I was at Muston Field at Philadelphia that's the Navy field up there when
she came in had a flat tire and I helped a little bit to get it repaired sort of
great privilege to roll that flat tire away and bring it back fixed up very
gracious lady and but I saw her one time at the white house when many famous
pilots were being received by the president what about Howard Hughes when he
made his marvelous flight in 1935 establishing a new transcontinental record, I
wrote to him for his airplane, and he was reluctant to give it to us unless we
had a place to put it on display. At that time we had no space for it. He said
he would keep it until we did have a space for it, and one day after the war at
WWII, he was walking toward me up Pennsylvania Avenue, and I recognized him. And
I turned and got in step with him, introduced I introduced myself. I said, I'm
the one that asked you for that airplane of yours. When do we get it? He said,
you'll get it when you have a place to show it. Of course, we do have a place to
show it now, it's beautiful. I think it's the most beautiful airplane we have.
It's just as smooth as a baby's cheek with a lovely streamlining and
craftsmanship on it. He says, in fact, I might fly it there because I still
think it's faster than these jet jobs. Of course, he never did.
What about Lincoln Ellsworth? He made Arctic and Antarctic flights. He was with
Amundsen in the Norge. That was the Italian airship that went over the North
Pole. And then he became interested in Antarctic flying and obtained a beautiful
airplane with one of the very first to be skin-stressed, the Northrop Gamma. I
wondered that technically because of its characteristics and historically
because of its flights in it. I asked him for that. He said, Yes, but it will
still be my airplane, because I still want to fly it." And he says, Keep it in
good shape for me. So I would, I'd pull the prop through every now and then, I'd
check the battery. It was still flyable to yesterday.
I'm so impressed by what has been. When I think that when I was 9 years old, I
saw an overwrite fly. When I was 69 years old, I saw a man step on the moon by
television making it all the more wonderful. And the marvelous things you've
done here in NASA with your shuttle and the other tremendous exploits of going
to the moon, that is the future and you can tell that better than I. I can't
predict the future, I'm too astounded at the past. That's my job. I'm supposed
to be historian emeritus of the National Airspace Museum. I don't think there's
anyone in the world that can say Hiflight like you can. Would you be willing to
say it for us? I wish McGee were here to say it, he's the one who wrote it. He
was the victim of a.... of a... running into another airplane in World War II.
Crashed. Oh, I have slipped the sorry bonds of earth And danced the skies on
laughter-silvered wings Sunward I've climbed And joined the tumbling berths of
sun-split clouds And done a hundred things you had not dreamed of Wheeled and
soared and swung high on the sun of heaven Hovering there, I've chased the
fleeting clouds along And flung my ego craft through footless halls of air Up,
up the high delirious burning blue, I've topped the snow-clad heights with easy
grace, where never lark or even eagle flew. And while the silent, lifting mind,
I've drawed the high, untrustful sanctities of space, put out my hand and
touched the face of God.
Paul Garber has the unique distinction of having lived through much of a century
that saw great advancements in aeronautical technology. He has seen Orville
Wright fly during the earliest days of the airplane. And he has seen Neil
Armstrong walk on the moon. In the times separating those two legendary events,
the United States has been steadily advancing the field of aeronautics. In 1958,
we witnessed the birth of NASA. In the 1960s, NASA comes of age. However, before
we concentrate on that period of time, We look at some of the developments in
people responsible for the progress made in aircraft performance. This is the
subject of next week's show, America's Wings. Until then, I'm Jim Burnett.
[Music.]